---
title: The peeler
type: page

---

**10 Apr 2020**

So there I was, standing in the middle of a shop - an appliance kind of store, homewares, where you go to buy towels, maybe a vacuum cleaner. There I was standing in between the isles, looking at the range of peelers. You know, the potato kind of peelers. And I'm standing there, looking at the whole shelf of these peeling devices, all in slightly different shapes, features and functions, not knowing which one to pick up and analysing what am I doing thinking this long about a peeler!

But you know, it does matter. Here is one, the most simple one, metallic body and handle, basic model, but even with a little extension to remove those deeper bits in vegetables that you would usually need a knife for. Even the basic model nowadays includes such a useful feature! I remember my dad would tell me stories from his time in the army in Russia and how they would peel the potatoes with a knife, the ratio would be weighted, if the weight of the peel would be higher than expected, they would have to work through the peels and get add more weight to the potatoes. Well, good thing with this one, the depth is set, so I won't have any control over the thickness of the peel. But is it set too low?

Here is another one, this one has a plastic handle, just the blade is metal. Well it's light and nice on the hand, even has a nice ornament of an asparagus, like you are going to be holding a stick of asparagus. Who wouldn't want that? Keeping things fun in the kitchen. The downside of it is that bits of food can get stuck between the metal blade and the plastic casing for it, but then it probably won't happen, you aren't going to be dipping it into some oily indian curry, just peeling some vegetables under some fresh water, should be fine.

And then there is another model, with a bigger handle, looks like you would respect yourself if you owned that peeler! Something about it makes you feel more established, even the size of the handle is more grand, the colour of it is more noble, a marble white, or a charcoal grey. But the price is almost double of my yellow asparagus peeler. Really isn't worth it.

Then there is of course a completely different take on it - a blade perpendicular to the handle. I dismiss this one straight away for at least two reasons. First - the space, it takes a lot more space. And when you move house you don't want to be thinking where to put the awkward appliance. You would have to put all these things in a container, and what if your parents come to help you move, and things don't fit easily in the designated box. Let's avoid the whole nightmare and have minimal of things. Of course it's nice when people help you move, but it's even nicer when you don't have much to pack! Well, even if it's not a problem to store, it simply takes more space, and if you don't need to, why would you? The second problem with it is the angle at how you would hold the vegetable and peel it. If you imagine it, you have to support the vegetable and then ideally control the speed and direction by placing the thumb of the opposite hand on the vegetable allowing you to have precise control over the peeling. But I never realised I thought this much about peeling before I had to pick the tool of choice and really evaluate my options.

As I'm standing there, people are walking past, going around their business. Am I starting to attract attention, are these people looking and thinking, why the hell is that guy looking at the peelers this long? How long have I been here? Like five minutes? Couldn've been longer. As I'm standing there, I'm starting to sweat, I can feel the temperature rise from my armpits and I notice it in contrast with the blowing aircon. I don't think I'm taking up too much space, are other waiting to look at the peelers? Should I take some time to think, walk around and come back when I've made up my mind? Should I just pick the first one, is my time worth more than thinking about these peelers?

I'd be the one using it most of the time, the love of my life is great, and she cooks well, but the peeling and preparing and cleaning would be up to me. Choosing this peeler is not going to change my life, but these small things all add up to a handful of nuances around the house up to a point when you've had enough, and you just want less friction around everything that you do. Perhaps it's worth sacrificing a few minutes of your time now for the comfort over the each iterance in your foreseeable future that you might be using this appliance. Every minute of time in your head the thoughts are fighting for attention, how often that you get to take a moment and have a thinking without the pressure of time? We don't really have that luxury. Somewhere I read and it has stuck with me that we don't have any less time than Einstein or Shakespare, we all have 24 hour days, it's how we decide to use it, how we invest our time, determines where we end up.

Having subconciously settled on a model of a peeler, if that's of any satisfaction to you, I picked up the yellow asparagus plastic handle, I walked briskly paid for it at the counter. And I do have to thank my subconciousness for it, as I would be still standing there analysing all the options, role playing scenarios in my head trying to predict the future.

What was this warp of time, an insight into my brain, where everything around me ceased to exist or fade away and move in slow motion. Was it five minutes? Was it 15?

I walk outside and can feel the warm air on my skin, wind moving the hair on my arms. I can feel the brightness of the sun hitting the back of my eye balls. That sharp contrast, the feeling of walking out of a dark room, and that pain, weirdly, a sensation not painful enough to dislike it, an action of  coming into nature, feeling the natural world through to the back of your head.

I turn the corner and start making my way back up the bridge over the canal, merging back with the time.